README.md, before:

# EcoWallet 🌿

EcoWallet is a mobile-first, Progressive Web Application (PWA) designed to help users track expenses and manage shopping lists. It features a modern, dark-mode compatible UI, offline capabilities, and a full-stack architecture with data synchronization.

## 🚀 Features

*   **Dashboard Overview:** Real-time visualization of total income vs. expenses with a spending progress bar.
*   **Transaction Tracking:** Log expenses with categories, icons, and timestamps.
*   **Smart Shopping List:** Add items, mark them as purchased, and clear completed items.
*   **Budget Analytics:** Visual bar charts comparing income and expenses over time.
*   **Offline Support:**
    *   **PWA:** Installable on iOS and Android (Manifest & Service Worker included).
    *   **Data Caching:** Browsing history remains available without internet.
    *   **Fallback:** Uses LocalStorage if the backend is unreachable.
*   **Backend:** Node.js/Express server with optional Firebase Firestore persistence (defaults to in-memory storage if not configured).

## 🛠 Tech Stack

*   **Frontend:** React 18, Vite, Tailwind CSS, Lucide React (Icons), Recharts (Analytics), Vite PWA Plugin.
*   **Backend:** Node.js, Express, Firebase Admin SDK.
*   **Language:** TypeScript (Frontend), JavaScript (Backend).

## 🏁 Getting Started

The project is structured as a monorepo with `client` and `server` directories. You will need two terminal instances to run the full stack.

### 1. Backend Setup

The backend runs on port `3001`.

```bash
cd server

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the server (Development mode with nodemon)
npm run dev
```

### 2. Frontend Setup

The frontend runs on port `5173` (default Vite port) and proxies API requests to the backend.

```bash
cd client

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:5173`.

## 🔥 Firebase Configuration (Database)

To enable permanent data storage (instead of the data resetting every time you restart the server), follow these steps to link a Firebase project:

### Step 1: Create Project
1.  Go to the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/).
2.  Click **"Add project"**.
3.  Name it `EcoWallet` (or similar) and disable Google Analytics for now.
4.  Click **"Create Project"**.

### Step 2: Create Database
1.  In the project sidebar, go to **Build** > **Firestore Database**.
2.  Click **"Create database"**.
3.  Select a location (e.g., `nam5 (us-central)`).
4.  Choose **"Start in production mode"** (The backend uses a Service Account which has full admin access, so it bypasses these rules).
5.  Click **"Create"**.

### Step 3: Generate Service Key
1.  Click the **Gear Icon ⚙️** next to "Project Overview" in the sidebar and select **Project settings**.
2.  Go to the **Service accounts** tab.
3.  Click **"Generate new private key"**.
4.  Click **"Generate key"** to download the JSON file.

### Step 4: Link to App
1.  Rename the downloaded file to `serviceAccountKey.json`.
2.  Move this file into your `server/` directory.
    *   *Path should be: `server/serviceAccountKey.json`*
3.  Restart your backend server (`Ctrl+C` then `npm run dev`).
4.  You should see `🔥 Firebase Firestore Connected` in the terminal.

## 📱 PWA & Mobile Installation

To test the PWA functionality:
1.  Run the frontend in production mode: `npm run build && npm run preview`.
2.  Open `http://localhost:4173`.
3.  **Chrome:** Click the install icon in the address bar.
4.  **Mobile:** Open the IP address on your phone and select "Add to Home Screen".

## 📂 Project Structure

```
/
├── client/                 # React Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # UI Components (Dashboard, ShoppingList, etc.)
│   │   ├── api.ts          # API Service with Offline Fallback logic
│   │   └── types.ts        # TypeScript Interfaces
│   ├── vite.config.ts      # Vite & PWA Configuration
│   └── public/             # Static Assets
│
├── server/                 # Express Backend
│   ├── index.js            # Server entry & API Routes
│   ├── serviceAccountKey.json # (Ignored Secret) Firebase Credentials
│   └── .gitignore          # Backend ignore file
│
└── README.md
```

## 🔒 Offline Strategy

The app implements an **Optimistic UI** with **Network-First, Cache-Fallback** strategy:
1.  **Read Operations:** Tries to fetch from the API. If it fails, it loads the last known state from `localStorage`.
2.  **Write Operations:** Sends data to the API. If the API is down, it alerts the user (future improvements will include a sync queue).
3.  **Assets:** HTML, CSS, and JS are cached by the Service Worker for instant loading.

Commit message:

feat: Configure Firebase via environment variables
This change updates the server to load Firebase credentials from environment variables instead of a local `serviceAccountKey.json` file. This enhances security and makes deployment to cloud environments more straightforward.

The README has also been updated to reflect the new configuration process using a `.env` file.

README.md, after:

# EcoWallet 🌿

EcoWallet is a mobile-first, Progressive Web Application (PWA) designed to help users track expenses and manage shopping lists. It features a modern, dark-mode compatible UI, offline capabilities, and a full-stack architecture with data synchronization.

## 🚀 Features

*   **Dashboard Overview:** Real-time visualization of total income vs. expenses with a spending progress bar.
*   **Transaction Tracking:** Log expenses with categories, icons, and timestamps.
*   **Smart Shopping List:** Add items, mark them as purchased, and clear completed items.
*   **Budget Analytics:** Visual bar charts comparing income and expenses over time.
*   **Offline Support:**
    *   **PWA:** Installable on iOS and Android (Manifest & Service Worker included).
    *   **Data Caching:** Browsing history remains available without internet.
    *   **Fallback:** Uses LocalStorage if the backend is unreachable.
*   **Backend:** Node.js/Express server with optional Firebase Firestore persistence (defaults to in-memory storage if not configured).

## 🛠 Tech Stack

*   **Frontend:** React 18, Vite, Tailwind CSS, Lucide React (Icons), Recharts (Analytics), Vite PWA Plugin.
*   **Backend:** Node.js, Express, Firebase Admin SDK.
*   **Language:** TypeScript (Frontend), JavaScript (Backend).

## 🏁 Getting Started

The project is structured as a monorepo with `client` and `server` directories. You will need two terminal instances to run the full stack.

### 1. Backend Setup

The backend runs on port `3001`.

```bash
cd server

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the server (Development mode with nodemon)
npm run dev
```

### 2. Frontend Setup

The frontend runs on port `5173` (default Vite port) and proxies API requests to the backend.

```bash
cd client

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:5173`.

## 🔥 Firebase Configuration (Database)

To enable persistent data storage using Firebase Firestore, you need to configure Environment Variables.

### Step 1: Get Credentials
1.  Go to **Firebase Console > Project Settings > Service Accounts**.
2.  Click **"Generate new private key"**.
3.  Open the downloaded JSON file. You will need `project_id`, `client_email`, and `private_key`.

### Step 2: Configure Environment
1.  In the `server/` directory, create a file named `.env`.
2.  Add the following variables (copy values from your JSON file):

```ini
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your-email@project.iam.gserviceaccount.com
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...your-key-content...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n"
```

**Important:** Ensure the `FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY` is enclosed in quotes so that newline characters (`\n`) are preserved correctly.

### Step 3: Restart Server
Restart the backend server. You should see:
`🔥 Firebase Firestore Connected (via Environment Variables)`

## 📱 PWA & Mobile Installation

To test the PWA functionality:
1.  Run the frontend in production mode: `npm run build && npm run preview`.
2.  Open `http://localhost:4173`.
3.  **Chrome:** Click the install icon in the address bar.
4.  **Mobile:** Open the IP address on your phone and select "Add to Home Screen".

## 📂 Project Structure

```
/
├── client/                 # React Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # UI Components (Dashboard, ShoppingList, etc.)
│   │   ├── api.ts          # API Service with Offline Fallback logic
│   │   └── types.ts        # TypeScript Interfaces
│   ├── vite.config.ts      # Vite & PWA Configuration
│   └── public/             # Static Assets
│
├── server/                 # Express Backend
│   ├── index.js            # Server entry & API Routes
│   ├── .env                # (Created by you) Secrets
│   └── .gitignore          # Backend ignore file
│
└── README.md
```

## 🔒 Offline Strategy

The app implements an **Optimistic UI** with **Network-First, Cache-Fallback** strategy:
1.  **Read Operations:** Tries to fetch from the API. If it fails, it loads the last known state from `localStorage`.
2.  **Write Operations:** Sends data to the API. If the API is down, it alerts the user (future improvements will include a sync queue).
3.  **Assets:** HTML, CSS, and JS are cached by the Service Worker for instant loading.
